content/about.md, before:

+++
date = "2017-03-05T16:11:58+05:30"
draft = false
title = "About"
+++

I'm Alex, one of the core maintainers of [Yii PHP framework](http://www.yiiframework.com/)
for more than 7 years, its representative in [PHP-FIG](http://www.php-fig.org/),
[active conference speaker](http://slides.rmcreative.ru/) and [participant of various other
OpenSource projects](https://github.com/samdark/).

I am [blogging in Russian since 2005](http://rmcreative.ru/) and recently decided
that it is time to write in English as well.

## Seeking for patronage

I am [seeking for patronage](https://www.patreon.com/samdark) in order to work on Yii framework and other OpenSource software.
Would really appreciate if you will support me.

## Available for Hire

I am available for hire to do:

- Code Reviews (basic security, Yii usage, cleanness, possible bugs etc.).
- Consulting (both Yii-related and not).
- Training and instruction.
- Public speaking.
- Technical writing.
- System design.
- Code.

Availablity is subject to change. Rate depends on type of the project and specifics. Average is
about $100/hr. I do give discounts and even may consider doing it for free for non-profits and OpenSource.


If you're interested in my experience, check out [my LinkedIn page](https://www.linkedin.com/in/makarov/).

If you have any questions, <a href="mailto:sam@rmcreative.ru">email me at sam@rmcreative.ru</a>.

Commit message:

Added extra example things I am good at

content/about.md, after:

+++
date = "2017-03-05T16:11:58+05:30"
draft = false
title = "About"
+++

I'm Alex, one of the core maintainers of [Yii PHP framework](http://www.yiiframework.com/)
for more than 7 years, its representative in [PHP-FIG](http://www.php-fig.org/),
[active conference speaker](http://slides.rmcreative.ru/) and [participant of various other
OpenSource projects](https://github.com/samdark/).

I am [blogging in Russian since 2005](http://rmcreative.ru/) and recently decided
that it is time to write in English as well.

## Seeking for patronage

I am [seeking for patronage](https://www.patreon.com/samdark) in order to work on Yii framework and other OpenSource software.
Would really appreciate if you will support me.

## Available for Hire

I am available for hire to do:

- Code Reviews (basic security, Yii usage, cleanness, possible bugs etc.).
- Consulting (both Yii-related and not).
- Bootstrapping commuities.
- Checking project is good for OpenSource before publishing. 
- Training and instruction.
- Public speaking.
- Technical writing.
- System design.
- Code.

Availablity is subject to change. Rate depends on type of the project and specifics. Average is
about $100/hr. I do give discounts and even may consider doing it for free for non-profits and OpenSource.


If you're interested in my experience, check out [my LinkedIn page](https://www.linkedin.com/in/makarov/).

If you have any questions, <a href="mailto:sam@rmcreative.ru">email me at sam@rmcreative.ru</a>.
